# 1.3.1 Role Models

## Grammar Points

### Task 1

- We use the **past simple** to talk about a finished action in the past when the time is understood from the context or there is a reference to it in the sentence. We also use the past simple with **sequence of actions** in the past.
- We use the **past continuous** to describe an action in progress in the past. We also use the past continuous to describe a background of a story or an event in progress around the time of the main event.
- We do not use **stative verbs (e.g. be, believe, know)** in the continuous form.
- We can use **when** with both the past simple and the past continuous, but we use **while** with the continuous.

### Task 2

Sofia Kovalevskaya (1) *was* (**be**) an exceptional mathematician and scientist who was born in Moscow in 1850.

As a child, Kovalevskaya was intellectually curious and (2) *showed* (**show**) a passion for mathematics, though she (3) *didn't have* (**not/have**) access to formal education.

When Kovalevskaya was in her late teens, she (4) *persuaded* (**persuade**) her father to allow her to study mathematics at the University of Heidelberg in Germany. While she (5) *was studying* (**study**) at Heidelberg, Kovalevskaya (6) *spent* (**spend**) many hours in rigorous study, developing a deep understanding of advanced mathematics. In 1874, Kovalevskaya (7) *wrote* (**write**) a groundbreaking dissertation on partial differential equations, which eventually (8) *brought* (**bring**) her a doctoral degree. Upon completing her doctoral thesis, when Kovalevskaya (9) *was working* (**work**) in mathematics, she (10) *published* (**publish**) several influential papers and (11) *received* (**receive**) numerous academic honors.

Although her accomplishments were significant, Kovalevskaya constantly (12) *experienced* (**experience**) discrimination and bias throughout her career, particularly as a woman in a male-dominated field. Despite the obstacles she (13) *faced* (**face**), Kovalevskaya continued to work and publish and (14) *became* (**become**) a professor and lecturer at the University of Stockholm in Sweden. Kovalevskaya (15) *was* (**be**) also interested in physics and astronomy, and she (16) *made* (**make**) several important contributions in these fields throughout her life.

Sofia Kovalevskaya (17) *was* (**be**) a trailblazer for women in mathematics and science, and her legacy continues to inspire future generations of women mathematicians and scientists.

### Task 3

_~~Announce~~ / ~~mention~~ / ~~blow~~ / ~~press~~ / ~~collapse~~ / ~~run into~~ / ~~cook~~ / ~~see~~ / ~~decide~~ / ~~set off~~ / ~~feel~~ / ~~settle down~~ / ~~get up~~ / ~~soar~~ / ~~have~~ / ~~spend~~ / ~~hit~~ / ~~leave~~ / ~~stand~~ / ~~live~~ / ~~take~~ / ~~manage~~_
1. I **was standing** at the bus stop when I **saw** the speeding car slam into the lamp post.
2. The icy wind **was blowing** through the trees as we **set off** on our journey into the forest.
3. Muriel **felt** exhausted so she **collapsed** onto the sofa, **pressed** the button on the remote control and **settled down** for an evening vegetating in front of the box.
4. The twins **spent** the afternoon shopping because they **were cooking** for their flatmates that evening.
5. Unfortunately for us, we **lived** on the wrong side of Miami when Hurricane Andrew **hit** the city.
6. Share prices **soared** when the government **announced** record growth figures.
7. I **was getting up** early next morning so I **decided** to have an early night.
8. They say that Macon **left** Sarah because he found out that she **had** an affair with his best friend.
9. Zach **took** the driving test five times before he **managed** to pass.
10. Mario **ran into** Clare at the supermarket the other day and she **mentioned** that Maye might be looking for work.

## Vocabulary Points

### Task 1

1. a big-tent **party**  
   a big-tent **genre**  
   a big-tent **strategy**
2. an acceptable **level**  
   an acceptable **start**  
   an acceptable **contract**
3. irresistible **temptation**  
   irresistible **pressure**  
   irresistible **music**
4. **define** a concept  
   **define** a purpose  
   **define** a border
5. **delight** audiences  
   **delight** environmentalists  
   **delight** the eye
6. *???*  
   **accommodate** temperature changes  
   **accommodate** photographers  
   **accommodate** the special interests
7. **contradict** a belief  
   **contradict** an idea  
   **contradict** the principle
8. **conquer** a challenge  
   **conquer** a disease  
   **conquer** the world

### Task 2

1. oppressive
2. contradiction / contradictory
3. expelled
4. irresistible / resistance
